=head1 NAME

Astro::Coord::Constellations - Identify the constellation for position (RA, Dec)

=head1 VERSION

Version 0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Astro::Coord::Constellations qw/constellation_for_eq constellations_table/;

 my $constellation_abbrev = constellation_for_eq($ra, $dec, $epoch);

 my %con      = constellations_table();
 my $name     = $con{'And'}->[0];     # Andromeda
 my $genitive = $con{'And'}->[1]; # Andromedae

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Identify the constellation to which a celestial position (as defined by equatorial
coordinates for any epoch) belongs to, according to the IAU constellation boundaries.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 constellation_for_eq

 my $constellation = constellation_for_eq($ra, $dec, $epoch);

Given equatorial coordinates in hours for Right Ascension C<$ra> and degrees for
Declination C<$dec> for epoch C<$epoch> in years AD, the constellation (abbreviation)
is returned.
You can pass the coordinates as the strings you find in human-readable catalogs,
see the function C<read_coordinates> of L<Astro::Coord::Precession> for what
formats are supported.

=head1 UTILITY FUNCTIONS

=head2 constellations_table

 my %con = constellations_table();

 $con{UMi}; # ['Ursa Minor', 'Ursa Minoris']

Returns a Perl hash with constellation abbreviations as keys and arrayrefs with
the constellation name and genitive.

=head1 AUTHOR

Dimitrios Kechagias, C<< <dkechag at cpan.org> >>

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-astro-coord-constellations at rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<https://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Astro-Coord-Constellations>.
You could also raise issues or submit PRs to the github repo below.

=head1 GIT

L<https://github.com/dkechag/Astro-Coord-Constellations>

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

IAU constellation boundaries from L<ftp://cdsarc.u-strasbg.fr/pub/cats/VI/42/data.dat>.
Based on the Fortran program CONFND by FO @ CDS  (francois@simbad.u-strasbg.fr).

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This software is copyright (c) 2021 by Dimitrios Kechagias.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.


